When I was young, I had an internal struggle.
I was studying, but I was just doing it for my mom.
Just like any typical kid I didn't want to stand out
or be different.
I walked ten minutes to school, ten minutes to the Kingdom Hall,
lived right in my territory.
So it was like in the little bubble.
So it's common to just bump into your classmates or people, you know.
I didn't know what their reaction would be.
Sometimes you imagine people laughing at you.
I was afraid of endangering the friendship.
Because I was raised in a religiously divided household,
I always knew I had a choice.
But at the same time, I would feel bad if I didn't defend my face
and my conscience would bother me.
So it was always a struggle.
I knew what the right thing to do was,
but I didn't have the courage to do the right thing.
I still clearly remember when I was twelve.
Just one day out of the blue, I picked up a magazine on my own
and read it from cover to cover for the first time.
And that left a deep impression.
It just touched my heart that day.
And then I thought, oh, there must be other books that I'm missing out.
So I just started reading other publications.
The brothers and sisters' experiences really touched my heart.
I was always amazed the courage they had
and I always wanted to imitate that.
When my mom's Bible teacher started studying with me
and helped me to meditate more on what I had learned,
and she introduced the inside book to me.
And that tool really helped me to dig deeper
as I was doing personal study.
After doing it little by little,
I realized that studying is enjoyable,
especially when you study just for yourself.
To deepen your faith in Jehovah
and gave me the courage that I needed.
At the beginning of every school year,
I would introduce myself as one of Jehovah's Witnesses.
It was not easy.
I would always pray.
Especially the night before that.
And in every year, it got easier and easier.
It took courage, but Jehovah helped me.
Classmates asked what I did over the weekend.
I would always mention spiritual activities
and they would tell me their problems.
And I would try to always think of a Bible principal
or an article that could help them.
One time the class was given the assignment
to pick a topic for a persuasive speech.
So I decided to use that opportunity to give a witness.
And chose the topic evolution versus creation.
The more I defended my faith, the more I realized
there was nothing to be afraid of.
After all, none of my classmates or teachers
ever had a bad reaction like I imagined they would.
I was able to regular auxiliary throughout high school.
That definitely served as a protection.
And kept me busy and right after high school
I was able to start regular pioneering.
One blessing is being able to have a good conscience.
Knowing I didn't try to hide who I am,
just to fit in.
It wasn't easy at first, but gradually I realized
that having a relationship with Jehovah
is something to be proud of.